Go/Text.md, before:

 #  AdGuard Go Team Text And Commenting Guidelines

Following this document is obligatory for comments and text in new code.  Some
of the rules aren't enforced as thoroughly or remain broken in old texts, but
this is still the place to find out about what we **want** our texts to look
like and how to improve them.

The rules are mostly sorted in the alphabetical order.



 *  <a href="#li-7a907f69" id="li-7a907f69" name="li-7a907f69">§</a>
    Avoid overly technical and markup-ey comments.  Write comments for people,
    with full sentences and proper punctuation.

 *  <a href="#li-2db43ebe" id="li-2db43ebe" name="li-2db43ebe">§</a>
    Capitalize every letter in a header or title.  So, a header should be
    something like this:

    ```none
    Using The New API
    ```

    and **not** like this:

    ```none
    Using the New API
    ```

 *  <a href="#li-658f569b" id="li-658f569b" name="li-658f569b">§</a>
    End sentences with appropriate punctuation.  Do not add full stops to
    headers.

 *  <a href="#li-4df3b56b" id="li-4df3b56b" name="li-4df3b56b">§</a>
    Headers should be written with all initial letters capitalized, except for
    references to variable names that start with a lowercase letter.

 *  <a href="#li-30850b1a" id="li-30850b1a" name="li-30850b1a">§</a>
    Mark temporary todos—that is, todos that must be resolved or removed before
    publishing a change—with two exclamation signs:

    ```go
    // TODO(usr1): !! Remove this debug before pushing!
    ```

    This makes it easier to find them both during development and during code
    review.

 *  <a href="#li-30aa3281" id="li-30aa3281" name="li-30aa3281">§</a>
    Set your editor to always end all your files with a newline to make sure
    that Unix tools [work correctly][nl].

 *  <a href="#li-b281efe6" id="li-b281efe6" name="li-b281efe6">§</a>
    Start sentences with a capital letter, unless the first word is a reference
    to a variable name that starts with a lowercase letter.

 *  <a href="#li-5e786fd3" id="li-5e786fd3" name="li-5e786fd3">§</a>
    Text should wrap at eighty (**80**) columns to be more readable, to use
    a common standard, and to allow editing or diffing side-by-side without
    wrapping.

    The only exception are long hyperlinks.

 *  <a href="#li-56e8ee2f" id="li-56e8ee2f" name="li-56e8ee2f">§</a>
    Use U.S. English, as it is the most widely used variety of English in the
    code right now as well as generally.

 *  <a href="#li-0569cfab" id="li-0569cfab" name="li-0569cfab">§</a>
    Use double spacing between sentences to make sentence borders more clear.

 *  <a href="#li-1a435693" id="li-1a435693" name="li-1a435693">§</a>
    Use the serial comma (a.k.a. Oxford comma) to improve comprehension,
    decrease ambiguity, and use a common standard.

 *  <a href="#li-2249ae11" id="li-2249ae11" name="li-2249ae11">§</a>
    Write todos like this:

    ```go
    // TODO(usr1): Fix the frobulation issue.
    ```

    Or, if several people need to look at the code:

    ```go
    // TODO(usr1, usr2): Fix the frobulation issue.
    ```

[nl]: https://stackoverflow.com/q/729692/1892060

Commit message:

Go: change tab width, add other conventions

Go/Text.md, after:

 #  AdGuard Go Team Text And Commenting Guidelines

Following this document is obligatory for comments and text in new code.  Some
of the rules aren't enforced as thoroughly or remain broken in old texts, but
this is still the place to find out about what we **want** our texts to look
like and how to improve them.

The rules are mostly sorted in the alphabetical order.



 *  <a href="#li-7a907f69" id="li-7a907f69" name="li-7a907f69">§</a>
    Avoid overly technical and markup-ey comments.  Write comments for people,
    with full sentences and proper punctuation.

 *  <a href="#li-2db43ebe" id="li-2db43ebe" name="li-2db43ebe">§</a>
    Capitalize every letter in a header or title.  So, a header should be
    something like this:

    ```none
    Using The New API
    ```

    and **not** like this:

    ```none
    Using the New API
    ```

 *  <a href="#li-658f569b" id="li-658f569b" name="li-658f569b">§</a>
    End sentences with appropriate punctuation.  Do not add full stops to
    headers.

 *  <a href="#li-4df3b56b" id="li-4df3b56b" name="li-4df3b56b">§</a>
    Headers should be written with all initial letters capitalized, except for
    references to variable names that start with a lowercase letter.

 *  <a href="#li-30850b1a" id="li-30850b1a" name="li-30850b1a">§</a>
    Mark temporary todos—that is, todos that must be resolved or removed before
    publishing a change—with two exclamation signs:

    ```go
    // TODO(usr1): !! Remove this debug before pushing!
    ```

    This makes it easier to find them both during development and during code
    review.

 *  <a href="#li-30aa3281" id="li-30aa3281" name="li-30aa3281">§</a>
    Set your editor to always end all your files with a newline to make sure
    that Unix tools [work correctly][nl].

 *  <a href="#li-84467c92" id="li-84467c92" name="li-84467c92">§</a>
    Set your editor to consider one tab to be four (**4**) columns wide.  This
    is the default in most editors, and it is also a common preference among
    developers.

 *  <a href="#li-b281efe6" id="li-b281efe6" name="li-b281efe6">§</a>
    Start sentences with a capital letter, unless the first word is a reference
    to a variable name that starts with a lowercase letter.

 *  <a href="#li-80ccb701" id="li-80ccb701" name="li-80ccb701">§</a>
    Strive to not leave any space on the right side and properly justify the
    text.  For example, **do not** do this:

    ```none
    This text is way too
    narrow and should be
    expanded.
    ```

 *  <a href="#li-5e786fd3" id="li-5e786fd3" name="li-5e786fd3">§</a>
    Text should wrap at eighty (**80**) columns to be more readable, to use
    a common standard, and to allow editing or diffing side-by-side without
    wrapping.

    The only exception are long hyperlinks.

    Don't forget to also [set the tab width][tab] in your editor's settings.

 *  <a href="#li-56e8ee2f" id="li-56e8ee2f" name="li-56e8ee2f">§</a>
    Use U.S. English, as it is the most widely used variety of English in the
    code right now as well as generally.

 *  <a href="#li-0569cfab" id="li-0569cfab" name="li-0569cfab">§</a>
    Use double spacing between sentences to make sentence borders more clear.

 *  <a href="#li-1a435693" id="li-1a435693" name="li-1a435693">§</a>
    Use the serial comma (a.k.a. Oxford comma) to improve comprehension,
    decrease ambiguity, and use a common standard.

 *  <a href="#li-2249ae11" id="li-2249ae11" name="li-2249ae11">§</a>
    Write todos like this:

    ```go
    // TODO(usr1): Fix the frobulation issue.
    ```

    Or, if several people need to look at the code:

    ```go
    // TODO(usr1, usr2): Fix the frobulation issue.
    ```

[nl]:  https://stackoverflow.com/q/729692/1892060
[tab]: #li-84467c92
